day before seagl2022 blog post (#371)
SeaGL/seagl.github.io: _posts/2022-11-03-SeaGL-2022-hang-ten.md

---
layout: post
title: 'SeaGL 2022: hang ten!'
status: publish
type: post
published: true
categories: news
tags: 2022
---

We are extremely excited for the conference which begins… TOMORROW!

> There are a variety of details regarding _how to attend_, _what's on the schedule_, and _why this year's SeaGL is such an achievement_ below. Please take a moment to read and share!

Reviewer: Is "why this year's SeaGL...achievement" gonna come across as us complimenting ourselves lol

Author: Hmm, something like "and _a small announcement_."

## Attending SeaGL

> Since we’re fully online for the third time this year, let’s talk about HOW to actually get online to watch talks and have a super social experience in your conference-going.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we’re fully online for the third time this year, let’s talk about HOW to actually get online to watch talks and have a super social conference-going experience.
```

To get started visit [seagl.org/attend](/attend) and follow the directions to join our virtual conference space hosted in [Matrix](https://matrix.org/). Once there, you will be able to join rooms where you can view talks, socialize, and get assistance. Throughout the event Patch—our friendly SeaGL seagull bot—will invite you to various spaces making navigation easier.

> Presenters will be delivering their talk on a private video platform. They will be assisted by volunteer moderators (please reach out if you would like to help). Our tech team will be directing that room's feed to a continuous video stream that is viewable within the [attend platform](https://attend.seagl.org/) or website's [view page](/watch).

Reviewer: Not sure we need to go into this much detail about how stuff works. I'd rather use this space to warn people in advance that the streaming is based on YouTube - they're going to find out anyway and this is an opportunity to explain that we wanted to do something else but weren't able to make it work this year (and also point out ways to mitigate privacy issues?)

> Each talk has it's own room within the virtual conference space. These will move between three subspaces: current, upcoming, and completed sessions. Attendees may join these rooms to chat anytime throughout the conference. Talks are expected to be 20 minutes and if the speaker would like, they have an additional 10 minutes for Q&A, which will be collected from the presentation's chat room.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each talk has its own room within the virtual conference space. These rooms will move between three subspaces: current, upcoming, and completed sessions. Attendees may join these rooms to chat anytime throughout the conference. Talks are expected to be 20 minutes and if the speaker would like, they have an additional 10 minutes for Q&A, which will be collected from the presentation's chat room.
```

> As a reminder, our [Code of Conduct](/coc) applies in all virtual conference spaces. You can read more details about the decisions that informed our tech stack in this [blog post](https://seagl.org/news/2022/10/07/Building-a-virtual-SeaGL.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a reminder, our [Code of Conduct](/coc) applies in all virtual conference spaces. You can also read more details about the decisions that informed our tech stack in this [blog post](https://seagl.org/news/2022/10/07/Building-a-virtual-SeaGL.html).
```

(Before this was just kind of a jarring transition)

## Scheduled sessions

> SeaGL has been striving to bring excellent content from a diverse pool of speakers for ten years and we are excited to that this year's schedule is now [live](https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2022/schedule/events)! Some highlights include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SeaGL has been striving to bring excellent content from a diverse pool of speakers for ten years and we are so excited about [this year's schedule](https://osem.seagl.org/conferences/seagl2022/schedule/events)! Some highlights include:
```

- Keynote speakers: Aeva Black, Sumana Harihareswara, Lorena Mesa, and Ernie Smith
- Afternoon TeaGL tea-time break

> - Evening trivia and *tails

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Evening trivia and mock/cocktails
```

(`*tails` isn't obvious unless you already know what the session is/last year's session was)

## Group meals
As SeaGL continues to be virtual this year we've been challenged on how to provide social eating events.

The word "trebuchet" might have been hinted at, but interstate lauches require more counterweight than we were willing to lift and there are probably laws against interstate food flinging.

Delivery by carrier seagull might be possible, but let's face it, only the empty containers would arrive.
Heck, just trying to fit them with basket french fry harnesses probably busts a bunch of safety regulations.

In the end the attendee experience committee decided on revision controlled recipes from the [SeaGL social-cookbook](https://github.com/SeaGL/social-cookbook) for food you can make at home.
These recipes do not require cooking and can be made with ~30 minute of prep time.
Choose what you'd like to make and gather the ingredients ahead of time, the come cook together!

## This year's theme
Last, but definitely not least, each year we poll the community for theme ideas and take a vote within the staff. This year that process lead to…

**Hang Ten!**

<figure>
<img alt="illustration of a seagull riding a surfboard" src="/img/posts/2022-11-03-hang-ten.jpg">

> <figcaption class="text-muted">CC0 1.0 Stable Diffusion</figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<figcaption class="text-muted">CC0 1.0 Stable Diffusion (which was trained on our logo!)</figcaption>
```

</figure>

Okay, that's it for now. Thank you to everyone who took the time to read and share this post, and to all of the folks volunteering to make SeaGL such an amazing conference!

> If you'd like to volunteer to help—this year or in the future—visit [seagl.org/get_involved](/get_involved) or send an email to participate@seagl.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to volunteer to help—this year or in the future—visit [seagl.org/get_involved](/get_involved) or send an email to participate@seagl.org. We hope to see you at SeaGL this year!
```
